The concept of Snake Game originated from the 1976 arcade game Blockade, developed by a British company called Gremlin Interactive, which shut down in 1984. Blockade was designed as a two-player game in which each would guide their own snakes, leaving a solid line behind them.
Snake’s story begins long before it found a mass audience with Nokia.
It was first created as a concept in 1976 under the name of Blockage, and was a monochromatic two-player arcade game developed by video games company company, Gremlin Interactive. Similar to what would soon become Snake, it involved pressing arrow keys to move each character, wherein players would leave a solid trail behind them wherever they turned. To win, the player had to last the longest without hitting anything else. This game inspired numerous iterations, such as the arcade game Bigfoot Bonkers that year; more similar concepts in 1977 by the then-leading video games company Atari; a computer-based version called Worm, programmed in 1978; and a single-player arcade game named Nibbler in 1982.
In 1997 came the landmark addition of Snake – first published by Finnish company Nokia for monochrome 6110 phones, and programmed by the company’s Taneli Armanto. It was on the off-chance that Taneli came to develop this iconic game, but he was the perfect suitor no less.
While developing Snake, Taneli and the team had some limitations. This included the number of keys to control the game (i.e. the phone’s keypad), a limited display that meant they could use no more than 48 x 84 black and white pixels, and a small amount of memory to use on the device.
Snake was conceived in programming language C, just like many other parts of the software in handsets of the generation.
The game was “hand-written” line-by-line, and no specific tools or code generators were needed (or available) to do so.
While in the testing phase and working out how best the snake would move on the display, Taneli started to notice that it was difficult to go towards the edge of the screen and make a 90-degree turn without crashing
There are now countless games available to play on your phone and the landscape has changed entirely
Ashleigh Starmer-Lee is a lead artist at Hipster Whale, an Australian studio working on games like Crossy Road Castle, Disney Crossy Road, Pac-Man 256 and Piffle. She remembers playing Snake when she was younger; it was one of the few games she had on her first phone
Just like Snake, games are constantly evolving to fit the needs of the consumer and, thanks to smartphones
you can quite literally do just about anything you want with a touch of a screen. 
“It feels like we’re at another turning point with mobile gaming,” continues Ashleigh, stating how the pandemic has provoked an increase in small-screen entertainment
Still, to this very day, people of all ages will have heard of Snake – they might have even played the original, or know an older person who has. 
when people find out that Taneli was the developer behind it, they tend to respond in a certain manner. “More often it’s like ‘Oh, you created Snake?! Respect, man! I’ve played it so much,’” he says. Or if they’re young: “‘My mother/father/uncle has played it so much!’” His children, too, have continued to keep the legacy alive and like to mention to their friends, “by the way, my dad created Snake.” I too would be proud if that were me.
Snake was a milestone moment for the mobile gaming industry, and much of what we see today can be linked back to the dawn of the cellular serpent navigating the small, black-and-white screen.
It brought smiles, happiness, brain stimulation, and it was just something to do now and then – or better yet fill the time on a drab afternoon bus ride back from school.
It also showed us what can be done on a phone, perhaps making us a little bit more demanding for future years to come.
“The tiny details that were added in to make the players’ life easier, the lack of programming errors, the beauty of the source code; it was perfect,” says Taneli on a lasting note about the game’s iconic impact. “And sometimes, every now and then, I still play it myself.”
